{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f23\froman\fcharset128\fprq1{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}MS Mincho{\*\falt ?? ??};}{\f27\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604030504040204}Tahoma;}
{\f28\froman\fcharset128\fprq1{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}@MS Mincho;}{\f37\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f38\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f40\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f41\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f42\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f43\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f44\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f45\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f46\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}{\f48\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f49\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}{\f50\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial (Hebrew);}
{\f51\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial (Arabic);}{\f52\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}{\f53\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f54\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f56\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f57\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f58\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f59\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f60\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}{\f253\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Tahoma CE;}
{\f254\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Tahoma Cyr;}{\f256\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Tahoma Greek;}{\f257\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Tahoma Tur;}{\f258\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Tahoma (Hebrew);}{\f259\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Tahoma (Arabic);}
{\f260\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Tahoma Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\ql \li0\ri0\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f1\fs28\lang1033\langfe1033\kerning28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\*
\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Plain Text;}{
\s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 footnote text;}{\*\cs17 \additive \super \sbasedon10 footnote reference;}{
\s18\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \cbpat9 \f27\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext18 Document Map;}{\s19\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext19 header;}{\s20\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext20 footer;}
{\*\cs21 \additive \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 Hyperlink;}}{\info{\title Setting The Constants}{\author Compaq}{\operator Eric}{\creatim\yr2002\mo4\dy2\hr21\min21}{\revtim\yr2004\mo5\dy9\hr10\min55}{\version77}{\edmins362}{\nofpages4}{\nofwords1477}
{\nofchars8419}{\*\company Compaq}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern8247}}\margl1325\margr1325 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0
\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind4\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\nolnhtadjtbl \fet0\sectd \psz1\linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s1\ql \li0\ri0\sb60\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f1\fs28\lang1033\langfe1033\kerning28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs17\super\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 #{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs17\super #}{ IDH_CONSTANTS}}}{\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Setting The Constants
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\uldb\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Required Fuel}{
\b\v\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 IDH_REQFUEL}{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1  - One Cylinder (ms)
\par }\pard \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
This field of the Constants dialog should contain the injector pulse width, in milliseconds, required to supply the fuel for a single injection event at stoichiometric combustion and 100% volumetric efficiency.  In order to come up with this value, MegaTu
\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 n\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
e provides a calculator that will suffice for 99% of applications (those for which it won't work generally require changes to the MS controller code itself, and that is beyond the scope of this help file).
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Given this value, it is then fairly easy to see h\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
ow the MegaSquirt controller does its job.  When you are running at 50% VE, MS cuts this required fuel value in half; if you require warmup enrichment of 30%, MS will multiply it by 1.30 and so on.}{\f1 
\par 
\par }\pard \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Click the Required Fuel button to invoke the }{\uldb\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
calculator}{\v\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 ID\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 H_REQFUEL}{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 .
\par }\pard \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1 
\par }{\b\fs22\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Injector Characteristics
\par }{\f1 
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Injector Opening Time (ms)
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 The amount of time required for the injector to go from a fully closed state to a fully opened state when a 13.2 v signal is applied.  Since fuel injectors are electro-mechanical devices with
\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1  mass, they have latency between the time a signal is applied and the time they are in steady-state spraying mode.
\par 
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Set Injector Opening Time to 1.0 ms and leave it there unless you are an expert and have information that indicates otherwise.
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 It is usuall\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
y assumed that injector opening is linear with respect to the amount of fuel delivered, so it is easy to compute the amount of fuel delivered (rate * opening_time / 2).  So, if you deviate too much from the correct value for opening time, this assumption 
\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 i\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
s incorrect; for instance, if you set the opening time to 5.0 ms when it is really 1.2 ms, then too much fuel will be injected with respect to the computed value.  The current MS controller code makes the simplifying assumption that zero fuel is injected 
\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 d\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
uring the opening (and closing) phases, so making this value larger will enrich the mix and will have a much greater effect at low pulse widths.  MS also uses this value as an additive constant in pulse width calculation, thus making this the lower limit 
\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 f\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 or pulse width.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Opening time is also dependent on the voltage applied to the injector coil, which is where the next value (Battery Voltage Correction) comes into play.
\par 
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Battery Voltage Correction (ms/v)
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 The decay rate of the Injector Open Time with respec\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
t to battery voltage.  When the system voltage deviates from the nominal voltage, the injector will take more or less time to open, this value corrects for this variation.
\par 
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Set the Battery Voltage Correction rate to 0.1 ms/v and do not change it unless you\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1  are an expert and have specific data on your injector to the contrary.
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 
\par 
\par }{\b\fs22\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Injector Current Control
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 In order to minimize injector opening time, some injectors have very low impedance coils and require specialized drivers.  The low impedance coil allows it t\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
o produce a lot more "horsepower" when opening the injector, but it produces so much power that it would burn up if left at full current for the duration of the injector pulse.  Therefore, the drivers for these injectors must give an initial full-current 
\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 p\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
ulse to get the injector open, then after a certain amount of time, drop the current to some lower "hold" value to keep it open for the duration of the pulse (for this reason, low impedance injectors are also called "peak and hold" injectors).  The two ph
\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 a\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 ses of operation are called the opening phase and the current limit phase (current limit mode is when the MegaSquirt controller is driving the injector in the current limit phase).
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 MegaSq\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
uirt implements a "software" solution to the problem of driving these injectors, rather than a hardware one (this makes MS adaptable to virtually any type of injector available, another one of it's many strong points).  The hardware drivers (the big trans
\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 i\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
stors bolted to the end case) are able to turn on and off very rapidly (much more rapidly than the injector can respond).  So, when the initial full current pulse time has expired, and the "hold" or current limiting phase is to begin, MS toggles the drive
\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 r\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1  on and off at 15 kHz, which makes it look to the slower-responding injector as if the current available has dropped, and voila, current limit mode.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 This scheme is called Pulse Width Modulation or PWM.  In a PWM circuit, you keep the frequency constant, b\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
ut vary the width of (modulate) the "on" time by making the on and off parts of the signal different widths (i.e., from "on" to next "on" might always be 1 second, but the "on" part can vary from 0-1 second, with the "off" part always being 1.0-"on" secon
\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 d\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
s long).  The amount of time that the signal is on is called its duty cycle and is expressed as a percentage (0% duty cycle means off all the time and 100% means on all the time).  In MS, the PWM frequency is 15 kHz, and you adjust the duty cycle of the s
\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 i\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 \hich\f1 gnal to control the \'93\loch\f1 \hich\f1 hold\'94\loch\f1  current to the injector.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 There are two settings controlling current to the injectors - one is the time after which the injector drive switches from full current to PWM current-limit mode, call PWM Time Threshold.  If you don\hich\f1 \rquote \loch\f1 
t k\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
now the actual characteristics of your low impedance injectors, try 1.0 ms for this, and once things are running you can adjust this time.  You can either calculate the charging current in your injector setup using theory (i.e., the charging equation for 
\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 a\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
 solenoid, for which you will need the inductance value), or you can use the empirical method (start shortening the time until you notice a difference in idle, then back it off and lengthen it by, say, 0.1 to 0.5 ms or so).
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 The second setting is PW Curren\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
t Limit, which controls the current after the injector opening period.  When you set this value, you are adjusting the duty cycle. This one is real easy to compute - take the battery voltage and divide by the DC resistance of an injector - this will give 
\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 y\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 ou the maximum current. Then you choose a desired hold current (usually somewhere around 1 amp or so for each injector), and set your duty cycle from this.
\par 
\par }{\ul\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Choosing PWM Values for V1.01 Boards
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 The following discussion deals with V1.01 MS boards }{\i\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 without}{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1  th
\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 e flyback modification.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 For example, let say your injectors have a DC resistance of 2 ohms and have a 1 amp hold current.  First, calculate the DC current flow:
\par 
\par }{\fs16\loch\af56\hich\af56\dbch\af23 \hich\af56\dbch\af23\loch\f56 \hich\f56    12 v / 2 \'d9\loch\f56  = 6 A
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Then, calculate the percentage of full current required:
\par 
\par }{\fs16\dbch\af23 \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2    1 A / 6 A =\hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2  0.1666 = 17%
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Round this up 5-10% and use the result, say 25% in this case.
\par 
\par }{\ul\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Choosing PWM Values for V2.2 Boards
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 When using a V2.2 MS board or a V1.01 with flyback mods, you will have to substantially increase the PWM Current Limit percentage from the abo\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
ve calculations.  Typically you should start at 75% and work down from there.  Leave the time threshold value at small values, around 1.0 ms!  If you set it too high, you will melt your injectors.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 With either setup, if you are converting an existing EFI s\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
ystem with resistor packs on P&H injectors, you can keep the resistor pack, and then you do not need the PWM mode, so set the current limit to 100%.  If you get rid of the resistor pack, then you will need to turn on PWM current limiting.
\par 
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 PWM Time Thresho\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 ld (ms)
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
When running peak and hold injectors, set this value to the time your injectors require full current.  A typical value for the full-current time might be 1.0 ms.  When the injector has received a full-current pulse of this duration, the signal is m
\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 odulated at the lower current for the rest of the pulse.
\par 
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 PWM Current Limit (percent)
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 For high impedance injectors, set this value to 100%.  For low impedance injectors, set this value to determine the hold current, as described above\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
 for your particular hardware.
\par 
\par }{\b\fs22\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Fast Idle Control
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Fast Idle Threshold (degrees F)
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Enter the temperature below which you wish to turn on the fast idle solenoid.  This is independent of any warmup enrichment.  A typical value is 145 Fahrenheit.
\par 
\par }{\b\fs22\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Correction \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Factors
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Barometric Correction
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
Enabling barometric correction causes an additional multiplicative factor to be used when computing injector pulse width.  The correction factor is 100% at 30 in/Hg (101.6 kPa), varying as described by the table contained in \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
barofactor.inc.  See the archives for several debates as to the merits and necessity of barometric correction, most people are leaving it off with no ill effects.
\par 
\par }{\b\fs22\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Injector Control
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Control Algorithm
\par }{\f1 Depending upon your engine\rquote s characteristics you may cho
ose either Speed Density (or SD, which is preferred in almost all cases) or Alpha-N as the algorithm for computing injector pulse width.  Speed Density uses RPM (the speed part) and manifold pressure (MAP, the density part) as the primary inputs to estima
t
e flow into the engine.  Alpha-N uses throttle position (also called Alpha) instead of MAP in the flow equation, and can only be used for normally aspirated engines.  Alpha-N should only be used in situations where the vacuum signal to the MAP sensor is s
o poor that it is impossible to tune with SD, such as might be found with very long duration cams with individual intake runners.
\par 
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Injections per Engine Cycle}{\b\f1 
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Set the number of squirts you want per \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
engine cycle.  This is the total injector events that you wish to occur for every engine cycle (360 degrees for two stroke engines and 720 for four strokes).
\par 
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Injector Staging}{\b\f1 
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Values for injector staging are simultaneous or alternating.  If you wish for al\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
l your injectors to fire at once, select simultaneous.  More likely you will choose alternating, as this helps even out the pressure fluctuations in the fuel rail.  If you use too many squirts per cycle, you might run out of time for all the injection eve
\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 n\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
ts, since each one has the overhead of injector opening and closing.  Likewise, raising the number of squirts effectively reduces the size of your injectors, since more time must be dedicated to the less-than-full-flow injector opening time.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Two squirts a\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 lternating is the same as one squirt simultaneous, except that the injector banks are fired out of phase.
\par 
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Engine Stroke}{\b\f1 
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Values for engine stroke type are two or four.  MS uses engine stroke to determine how many degrees are in an engine cycle.
\par }{\f1 
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Number of Cylinders
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Count the cylinders on your engine.  If you are unsure how many cylinders your engine has, you shouldn\hich\f1 \rquote \loch\f1 
t be installing MegaSquirt on it.  This value is actually the number if ignition events per cycle sent to the ignition input on the c\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
ontroller (so my initial Audi installation, which took the ignition signal from a single-window Hall sensor in the distributor, was set up as a 1-cylinder motor rather than a 5-cylinder).
\par }{\f1 
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Injector Port Type
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Select the type of injector that you are using, \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 throttle body or multi-port.
\par 
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 MAP Type}{\b\f1 
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
Values for this may be selected from the option menu, and are either 115 kPa or 250 kPa.  This should be auto-detected from MS, but in case it is not, then select the right one and hit "Send to ECU" right away.
\par 
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Engin\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 e Type
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
Even fire engines have evenly spaced ignition events, say every 90 or 180 degrees of crank angle.  Odd fire engines (like 45 V-twins) will fire with a different interval between each spark (135 and 225 degrees, for example).  The odd fire code was n
\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 ot implemented in either of the V1 or V2 controller code, so just leave this at even fire.  If you have\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1  an odd fire engine, ask about this at }{\field{\*\fldinst {\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 
\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1  \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 HYPERLINK \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 "\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 http://www.msefi.com/\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 "\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1  }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 {\*\datafield 
00d0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b02000000170000001600000068007400740070003a002f002f007700770077002e006d0073006500660069002e0063006f006d002f000000e0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b2c00000068007400740070003a002f002f007700770077002e006d0073006500660069002e00
63006f006d002f000000}}}{\fldrslt {\cs21\ul\cf2\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 http://www.msefi.com/}}}{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1  \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 and someone may be able to help you.

\par }}