{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f3\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05050102010706020507}Symbol;}{\f23\froman\fcharset128\fprq1{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}MS Mincho{\*\falt ?? ??};}
{\f28\froman\fcharset128\fprq1{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}@MS Mincho;}{\f35\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f36\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f38\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f39\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f40\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f41\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f42\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f43\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f44\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}{\f46\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f47\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}{\f48\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial (Hebrew);}
{\f49\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial (Arabic);}{\f50\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}{\f51\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f52\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f54\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f55\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f56\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f57\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f58\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{
\s1\ql \li0\ri0\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f1\fs28\lang1033\langfe1033\kerning28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Plain Text;}{\s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 footnote text;}{\*\cs17 \additive \super \sbasedon10 footnote reference;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1295185686\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0
\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698705\'02\'00);}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc4\levelnfcn4
\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698713\'02\'01.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1 \fi-360\li1440\jclisttab\tx1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc2\levelnfcn2
\leveljc2\leveljcn2\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698715\'02\'02.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1 \fi-180\li2160\jclisttab\tx2160 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0
\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698703\'02\'03.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1 \fi-360\li2880\jclisttab\tx2880 }{\listlevel\levelnfc4\levelnfcn4
\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698713\'02\'04.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1 \fi-360\li3600\jclisttab\tx3600 }{\listlevel\levelnfc2\levelnfcn2
\leveljc2\leveljcn2\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698715\'02\'05.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1 \fi-180\li4320\jclisttab\tx4320 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0
\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698703\'02\'06.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1 \fi-360\li5040\jclisttab\tx5040 }{\listlevel\levelnfc4\levelnfcn4
\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698713\'02\'07.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1 \fi-360\li5760\jclisttab\tx5760 }{\listlevel\levelnfc2\levelnfcn2
\leveljc2\leveljcn2\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698715\'02\'08.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1 \fi-180\li6480\jclisttab\tx6480 }{\listname ;}\listid788285497}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid788285497\listoverridecount0\ls1}}{\info{\title Enrichments}{\author Compaq}{\operator Eric}{\creatim\yr2002\mo4\dy2\hr21\min51}{\revtim\yr2004\mo1\dy2\hr23\min24}{\version36}{\edmins96}
{\nofpages3}{\nofwords922}{\nofchars5260}{\*\company Compaq}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern8247}}\margl1319\margr1319 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701
\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind4\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\nolnhtadjtbl \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2
\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\sb60\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f1\fs28\lang1033\langfe1033\kerning28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs17\super\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 #
{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs17\super #}{ IDH_ENRICHMENTS}}}{\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Enrichments
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Priming Pulse
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 The duration in milliseconds of a priming pulse that is applied when the MS controller is powered up.  If you don\hich\f1 \rquote \loch\f1 
t want a priming pulse, set this field to zero.  (Only available for version 2.0 and later of MegaSquirt controller\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1  code.)
\par 
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Cranking Pulsewidth}{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Cranking pulse width determines how long the injector will be open in milliseconds for each pulse while the engine is cranking (i.e., the RPM is below 300).  The actual pulse width is determined by performing linear interpolati
\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
on on the line described by the end points you enter for the "-40 degrees F" and "170 degrees F" values.  For instance, if you enter 10.0 ms as the pulse width at -40 F and 2.0 ms at 170 F, the pulse width will be 6.0 ms when you start your engine at 65 F
\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 .
\par 
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Note}{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
: Cranking pulse occur at every ignition event, while running pulses only occur at the interval specified on the constants page; if you have a 4 cylinder engine and are taking the tachometer signal from the coil, then you will get four (4) cranking p
\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 ulses per cycle and depending on settings one injection per cycle while running.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 The MS variables "CWU" and "CWH" hold the low temperature and high temperature pulse widths, respectively.
\par 
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Afterstart Enrichment
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 The afterstart enrichment is one that decays\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
 from its max value (specified in the "Enrichment (percent)" field) to zero in a linear fashion over a period defined in "Number of Ignition Cycles."  If you specify 20% enrichment over 250 ignition cycles, then the first pulse is enriched by 20%, the 125
\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 t\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
h pulse is enriched by 10% and the 250th (and later) by zero percent (this assumes 1 event per cycle, or a 1 cylinder engine; divide by the number of ignition events per cycle to get the specific behavior for your motor).
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 MS stores these values in the fla\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 sh constants called "AWC" (Afterstart Warmup Count) and "AWEV" (Afterstart Warmup Enrichment Value).
\par 
\par }{\b\fs22\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Exhaust Gas Oxygen Sensor Parameters
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 These parameters define the closed loop behavior of MS.  You must have a narrow band O2 sensor hooked up for this mod\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
e to work in v.1.0 controller code; either a narrow band or wide band will work with v.2.0 of controller code.  To disable closed loop operation altogether, set the EGO Step value to zero.
\par 
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 EGO Sensor Type
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Specify either a narrow band sensor or wide band s\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
ensor.  Functionally this merely sets the direction sense of the sensor voltage.  For narrow band sensors, the voltage rises as the mixture is richening and drops as the mixture becomes lean.  The wide band setting corresponds to the opposite sense, i.e.,
\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1  \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 voltage drops to indicate enrichment (this is how the DIY-WB operates, not necessarily all WB sensors!).  (Available in v 2.0 controller code.)
\par 
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 EGO Switch Point (v)
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 This is the switching point voltage that indicates stoichiometric combustion (approximatel\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
y 14.7:1 with gasoline).  For narrow band sensors this is 0.5 v*; for the DIY-WB wideband sensor it is 2.5 v (for other wideband sensors this voltage may be quite different).  (This value is only active in v 2.0 controller code.)
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 *This is true for zirconi\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 a NB sensors, which are used almost exclusively in modern vehicles.  The titania NB sensor has a different voltage range (1-5 v), but is rarely used.
\par 
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 \hich\f1 Coolant Temp Activation (\'b0\loch\f1 F)
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 This is the temperature below which closed loop operation is disabled.  If t\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
his value is too low, then closed loop will try to lean out the warmup enrichments and you may experience rough running.  Typical value is 160 F and should somewhat above the point at which warmup enrichment stops (see the Warmup Enrichment Bins settings 
\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 a\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 nd find the lowest on which contains 100).
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 The MS value "EGOTEMP" stores this quantity.
\par 
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Ignition Events Per Step
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 This value determines the rate at which the closed loop algorithm applies correction.  The default value of 32, when used on a four cylinder \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
engine with four ignition events per cycle, tells MS to wait for 8 cycles before changing the current correction factor.
\par 
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 EGO Step (percent)
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Once the closed loop algorithm has decided to change the correction factor, it adds or subtracts this percentage fr\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
om the current value.  This should move slowly to avoid unstable response, so make sure it is small, 1% being the default.
\par 
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 EGO  }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 {\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 177 \\f "Symbol" \\s 10}{\fldrslt\f3\fs20}}}{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1  Limit (%)
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Closed loop operation should not be substituted for proper tuning!  This value limits the correction that can be ma\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
de by the closed loop algorithm, the default of 10% indicates the correction factor cannot go outside the range 90-110%.
\par 
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 EGO Active Above RPM
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 This value specifies the lower limit above which closed loop operation occurs.  Typically, your engine will idle \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
best when it is richer than stoich, so turning off closed loop for low RPMs allows this to happen. The default value for the RPM limit is 1200.  (Available only in v 2.0 MS, older versions have a fixed 1200 RPM value in the controller code.)
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Warmup Enrich\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 ment Bins
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
Warmup enrichment is based on coolant temperature.  Since warmup enrichment requirements are usually non-linear, several bins are provided to specify different rates in different temperature domains.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Place values in the "-40" through "160 degree\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 s F" fields, typically running from about 120 at -40 F to 100 at 100 F; make sure the values are all 100 or greater.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 The MS array "WWU" contains these enrichment values.
\par 
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Acceleration Enrichment
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Acceleration enrichment (AE) occurs when you open the thrott\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
le "rapidly" to avoid bogging the engine.  In v.1.01 MS, this is done solely based upon the rate of change in the throttle position sensor (also called TPSDOT).
\par 
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 TPSDOT Thresh
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 This is the threshold in v/sec below which no acceleration enrichment will occur\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
 (you can move the throttle from idle to full open without acceleration enrichment, if you open it slowly enough).  Depends grossly upon the range of your TPS, a typical value might be 1.2 v/sec.
\par 
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Tuning Note}{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 :  While you are tuning the VE table you should \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
set this threshold artificially high (maybe 40.0) to disable acceleration enrichment completely.  After the VE table is fairly well-defined, set this back to 1.2 and begin tuning AE.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 MS stores this value in the "TPSTHRESH" variable.
\par 
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Accel Time (sec)
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 This\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1  value indicates how long the acceleration enrichment "squirt" will last.  Typical values are around 1.0 second.  MS stores this value in the variable "TPSACLK."

\par 
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Cold Accel Enrichment (ms)
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 The acceleration enrichment pulse also varies depending upon coola\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
nt temperature.  The value specified here is the pulse width added to the value from the bin calculations at -40 F.  The Cold Acceleration Enrichment amount is linearly interpolated from full amount at -40 F down to zero at 165 F.  A typical value might b
\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 e\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1  2.0 ms.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 This value is stored in the "TPSACOLD" variable in MS.
\par 
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Cold Accel Multiplier (%)}{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Another means for increasing the amount of fuel delivered by the acceleration enrichment \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 pulse is supplied by this value\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 ; it is likewise interpolated from the full
\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1  specified\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1  amount at \loch\af1\dbch\af23\hich\f1 \endash \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 40F\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1  down to zero at 165 F\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 .  \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
Before\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1  the Cold Acceleration Enrichment va\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 lue is added to the base \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 accelerat\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 ion enrichment pulsewidth, \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
it is multiplied by this value.
\par 
\par \tab \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 T\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 otal \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 AE = Base AE * CAM + CAE
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 The difference betwee\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 n \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 the two types of AE cold modify can be easily seen with a few examples:
\par 
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\s15 \fs20\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 1)\tab}}\pard \s15\ql \fi-360\li720\ri0\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx720\faauto\ls1\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
Assume\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1  we have a c\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 alculated AE pulse of 5.0 ms.  Say our\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1  coolant\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1  temperature is 40 F, \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1  \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
giving a \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 CAE pulse of 2.0 ms and CAM is turned off (100%).  The result is 5.0+2.0\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1  = 7.0\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1  ms.
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\s15 \fs20\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 2)\tab}\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
Assume same base AE and temperature, but now we turn off CAE (0.0 ms) and set CAM to give 140%.  The result is the same, we get 5.0*1.4 = 7.0 ms.
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\s15 \fs20\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 3)\tab}\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Take the first case, but hit the accelerator faster, giving 8.0 ms base AE pulse.  We now have a result of 8.0+2.0 = 10.0 ms.
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\s15 \fs20\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 4)\tab}\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Take case 2, \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 but \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 with the higher base AE pulse, giving 8.0*1.4 = 11.2 ms.

\par }\pard \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 The bottom line is that the CAE \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 modifier\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1  is constant and independent of the base pulse, where on t\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 he other hand\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
, the CAM modifier has a proportional \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 effect\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1  \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 on the AE, bigger base pulse means bigger result.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 \hich\f1 This value is stored in the \'93\loch\f1 \hich\f1 ACMULT\'94\loch\f1  variable in MS.
\par 
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Decel Fuel Amount (%)
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 When you let off the throttle rapidly (that is the closing rate exceeds TPSDOT Thresh) and the engine is turning faster than 1500 RPM, then deceleration\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
 fuel cutoff is performed by MS.  Deceleration fuel amount is multiplied by the "normal" pulse width, that is, if the calculated pulse is 12.0 ms and you have 20% decel amount, then the resulting pulse width is 2.4 ms.  A value of 100% causes the fuel to 
\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 r\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 emain at its calculated value, and can cure bucking on deceleration in vehicles with manual transmissions; those with automatic transmissions may benefit in fuel economy by using values below 100%.

\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 The MS variable "TPSDQ" holds this value as a percentage.\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1  
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Acceleration Enrichment Bins (ms)
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 These bins specify the actual enrichment in terms of pulse width.  They are linearly interpolated to determine a value that is ultimately added to the computed pulse width.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 The array of values is called "TPSAQ" as stor\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 ed in MS.
\par }}
