{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f23\froman\fcharset128\fprq1{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}MS Mincho{\*\falt ?? ??};}{\f28\fmodern\fcharset128\fprq1{\*\panose 02020609040205080304}@MS Mincho;}
{\f35\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f36\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f38\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f39\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f40\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f41\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f42\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f43\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f44\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}
{\f46\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f47\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}{\f48\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial (Hebrew);}{\f49\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial (Arabic);}{\f50\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}
{\f51\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f52\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f54\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}{\f55\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f56\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}
{\f57\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f58\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\ql \li0\ri0\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\f1\fs32\lang1033\langfe1033\kerning32\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Plain Text;}{\s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 
footnote text;}{\*\cs17 \additive \super \sbasedon10 footnote reference;}}{\info{\title MegaTune Gauge Configuration}{\author Compaq}{\operator Eric}{\creatim\yr2004\mo2\dy11\hr10\min25}{\revtim\yr2005\mo12\dy10\hr12\min5}{\version16}{\edmins47}
{\nofpages1}{\nofwords0}{\nofchars0}{\*\company Compaq}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern8247}}\margl1319\margr1319 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180
\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow1\dgvshow1\jexpand\viewkind4\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd 
\linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s1\ql \li0\ri0\sb60\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f1\fs32\lang1033\langfe1033\kerning32\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs17\super\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 #{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs17\super #}{IDH_MINITERM}}}{\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 MegaTune Mini-Terminal
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f1 
MegaTune has a built-in terminal emulator, under Communications -> Mini-Terminal.  It allows you to do loop-back testing during MS board assembly, check error status on with various firmware versions and check firmware types, among other things.
\par 
\par }{\b\f1 Assembly-Time Communication Checks
\par }{\f1 While you are soldering up your MegaSquirt board, you will need to do some testing.  The \'93loop-back\'94 testing described in the assembly instructions can be accomplished using HyperTerm or any other terminal emulator, but if you use MT\rquote 
s Mini-Term to do them, then you know that not only is the MS hardware working, but that it indeed is talking to MT properly and you have your settings specified correctly.
\par 
\par To run the loop-back tests, follow the instructions for installing the jumper or jumpers on your main board, then start typing characters into Mini-Term.  Since Mini-Term implements a local echo of all characters sent, you should
 see the characters you type appear twice, first the local echo and then the character that comes back on the communications loop.  For instance, if you type "test", then you should see "tteesstt" on the screen.
\par 
\par Remember that the baud rate for MS-I is 9600 and MS-II is 115200; you will probably need to change the comm port setting to find out which is correct on your PC.
\par 
\par }{\b\f1 MSnS-Extra Error Reporting
\par }{\f1 The MSnS-Extra firmware contains some very nice built-in diagnostics that check for configuration conflicts at startup.  For instance, I set my test box to use HEI Ignition, but left LED19 set to display acceleration enrichment.  Upon power up, th
e stimulator LEDs flashed indicating an error (injector LEDs black, the fuel pump LED flashing every second or so), and this error message came up in the Mini-Term window.
\par 
\par }\pard \s15\ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs18 In HEI7 mode you must have LED19 set as a spark output for the bypass signal
\par }\pard \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1 
\par In order for you to see these messages from the MSnS-Extra code, you will need to have Mini-Term displayed, and then power cycle the MegaSquirt.  The messages are sent once at power up, so if you don\rquote 
t see them the first time, you may need power cycle the MS several times.
\par 
\par }{\b\f1 Checking Firmware Versions
\par }{\f1 Virtually all MS firmwares will report their version number or other version information if you send them the proper command.  Various version use either upper or lower case \'93S\'94, \'93Q\'94 or \'93T\'94 to get back this informat
ion.  Often you can get two pieces of information from the firmware, both its \'93interface\'94 version and its \'93feature\'94
 version.  The interface defines the memory footprint that the firmware defines, and the feature version can tell you about the bug fix levels
\par 
\par For example, my test MS-II responds to both \'93S\'94 and \'93Q\'94.  Sending \'93Q\'94 produces MS-II\rquote s interface version string:
\par 
\par }\pard \s15\ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {MSII Rev 2.30000   
\par }\pard \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1 
\par While sending an \'93S\'94 produces its feature version, which differs in the revision number (all of the 2.3x code versions shared the same memory layout, but the later ones had bug fixes and features added):
\par 
\par \tab }{** V2.32Embedded Code by B&G **
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 \hich\f1 So, when you get a response to \'93\loch\f1 \hich\f1 T\'94\loch\f1 , don\hich\f1 \rquote \loch\f1 t just stop there, try the other commands and see if they report something different.
\par }}