{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f23\froman\fcharset128\fprq1{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}MS Mincho{\*\falt ?? ??};}{\f28\froman\fcharset128\fprq1{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}@MS Mincho;}
{\f35\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f36\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f38\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f39\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f40\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f41\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f42\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f43\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f44\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}
{\f46\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f47\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}{\f48\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial (Hebrew);}{\f49\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial (Arabic);}{\f50\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}
{\f51\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f52\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f54\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}{\f55\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f56\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}
{\f57\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f58\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\ql \li0\ri0\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\f1\fs28\lang1033\langfe1033\kerning28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Plain Text;}{\s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 footnote text;}{\*\cs17 
\additive \super \sbasedon10 footnote reference;}}{\info{\title Realtime Variables}{\author Compaq}{\operator Compaq}{\creatim\yr2002\mo4\dy2\hr20\min59}{\revtim\yr2002\mo5\dy18\hr20\min41}{\version13}{\edmins49}{\nofpages3}{\nofwords808}{\nofchars4608}
{\*\company Compaq}{\nofcharsws5658}{\vern8247}}\margl1319\margr1319 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3
\jcompress\viewkind4\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\nolnhtadjtbl \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s1\ql \li0\ri0\sb60\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f1\fs28\lang1033\langfe1033\kerning28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs17\super\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 #{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs17\super #}{ IDH_RUNTIME}}}{\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Runtime Display
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Realtime Variables
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 This display shows the values inside the MS controller in real time.
\par 
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Time (\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 s\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 )
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
Time in seconds since MS last booted (MS "secl").  This value is derived from the 8-bit seconds value in the internal MS clock, and will therefore only display values from 0 to 255 (it wraps around when it hits 255).
\par 
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Barometer (kPa\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1  and in/Hg\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 )
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 The barometric pressure as measured by MS.  Currently this is a static value determined at startup.  Returned by MS in "baro" as a raw ADC count.
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 O2 (v)
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 This is the voltage detected on the\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1  EGO sensor if on is installed.\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
  For narrow band sensors this ranges from 0-1 v and typical wideband sensors have a voltage range of 0-5 v.
\par 
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Coolant (F)
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 The value reported by the coolant temperature sensor (returned by MS in "cts" as a raw ADC count).  Don't \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
be alarmed if it seems to be stuck at 215 F when your dash gauge is reading higher.  Due to 8-bit software constraints this is the maximum value that MS knows about.
\par 
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 NOTE
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Version 1.00 of MegaTune had hard-coded transfer functions from ADC count to tempera\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
ture.  If you used a non-GM CTS and changed the THERMFACTOR table in your MS, then MegaTune would show you "wrong" values for coolant temperature.
\par 
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Batt (v)
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Current battery voltage as measured inside MS.  If this number looks lower than actual battery volt\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
age (probably 14.0 v or higher), then you may not have big enough wires running to MS; put a voltmeter across the wires from the board to their source in your vehicle's wiring loom (should be less that 1 v, a lot less).  Returned from MS as a raw ADC coun
\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 t\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1  in "batt."
\par 
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 TPS (v)
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Throttle position in volts.  Most TPSs don\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
't range from 0 to 5 v, so don't be alarmed if yours only goes from 1.5 to 4.4 v as this is normal.  The nominal TPS value itself is not interpreted in any absolute way, but rather the rate of change in TPS is what is used for acceleration enrichment.  (W
\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 e\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 ll, that's not exactly true as the value of 3.0 volts is used to denote "flood clear" mode; i.e., if you hold the throttle down past the 3v mark when cranking, the pulse width is cut back to 1.0 ms.

\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Hmm, now that I peruse the code a little closer I also s\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 ee 3.5v being used as the threshold above which O2 closed loop mode is disabled.)  Returned from MS as "tps" as a raw ADC count.
\par 
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Gamma\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 E
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
Gamma is the total enrichment factor, computed by MS taking into account all of warmup, acceleration/deceleration, barometric, manifold air temperature and EGO sensor correction factors.  (See Corrections/Enrichments, below.)  Returned f
\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 rom MS as a percentage value in "gammae."
\par 
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 MAP (kPa)
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 The manifold absolute pressu\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 re as seen by MS in kiloPascals.  Returned in MS "map" as a raw ADC count, converted in MegaTune using a hard-coded transfer function.  

\par 
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 M\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 AT\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1  (F)
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 The raw temperature of the a\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 ir at the M\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 anifold \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 A\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 ir \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 T
\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 emperature\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1  sensor.  Used in conjunction with MAP to compute manifold air density.  (See note on Coolant temp, above.)  Returned by MS in "mat" as a raw ADC count.
\par 
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 RPM
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Engine speed in RPM.  If this is jumping around in an unpredictable manner, you probably have a poor ignition signal input\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
 to MS.  It is returned from MS as RPM/100 in the variable "rpm."
\par 
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Pulse Width (ms)
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 The injector pulse width being used by MS to squirt fuel into your motor.  Reported as 10xPulse width in the MS variable "pw."
\par 
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Duty Cycle (%)
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 The duty cycle of the injectors indicates the total percentage of time that the injectors are opened.  This value should almost always stay below 85-90%, unless you really know what you are doing.

\par 
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Corrections/Enrichments (percent)
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 This part \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 of the realtime display shows all the individual correction factors used to compute gamma and the resulting pulse width.
\par 
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 EGO
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 This is the correction factor computed from O2 sensor readings.  Returned as a percentage by MS in "egocorr."  See "Exhaust Gas Ox\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
ygen" on the Enrichments page, below, for parameters to modify MS's computation of this factor.
\par 
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Barometer
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 A barometric correction is applied, based on the initial MAP sensor reading.  Returned in "barocor" by MS.
\par 
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Warmup
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 The warmup correction factor appli\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
ed due to startup and coolant temperature status.  Returned in "warmocor" by MS.  See "Warmup Enrichment Bins" to modify the computation of this factor.
\par 
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Air Density
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Air density correction is computed from MAT.  This value is returned from MS in "aircor."
\par 
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Volumetric Efficiency
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 The current computed VE value determined by look up in the VETABLE using RPM and MAP.  Reported in "vecurr" by MS.
\par 
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Acceleration
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
Unlike all the other corrections here, the acceleration enrichment is an additive factor; take the result of all the above multiplied through, then add this one on.  Returned from MS in "tpsaccel."
\par 
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Runtime Messages
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 This message is a decoded version of the\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
 MS engine status variable "engine."  Possible status values are (these are their names in the controller code megasquirt.h and megasquirt.asm):
\par 
\par }\pard \s15\ql \fi-180\li360\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin360\itap0 {\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Connected\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1  \loch\af1\dbch\af23\hich\f1 \endash \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1  }{
\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 MegaTune is communicating with the MegaSquirt controller.}{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1  
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Crank\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 ing}{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1  \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 -\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1  whether the engine is cranking (i.e.,\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
 RPM is less than 300).
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Running}{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1  -\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1  whether the engine is considered to be running or not.
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Warmup}{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1  - indicates that the engine is in warmup due to coolant temperature.  You can change the TPSaen behavior by ch
\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 anging the "Warmup Enrichment Bins," below.
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Afterstart}{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1  - indicates if after-start warmup enrichment is being done (see Afterstart Enrichment in the next section).
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 ACCEL}{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
 - tells us if MS is applying acceleration enrichment.  Change the acceleration enrichment by modifying the values on the "Enrichments" page, below.
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 DECEL}{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1  - indicates any acceleration enleanment (de-enrich\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 ment).
\par }}
