{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f23\froman\fcharset128\fprq1{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}MS Mincho{\*\falt ?? ??};}{\f28\froman\fcharset128\fprq1{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}@MS Mincho;}
{\f35\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f36\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f38\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f39\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f40\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f41\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f42\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f43\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f44\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}
{\f46\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f47\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}{\f48\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial (Hebrew);}{\f49\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial (Arabic);}{\f50\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}
{\f51\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f52\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f54\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}{\f55\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f56\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}
{\f57\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f58\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\ql \li0\ri0\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\f1\fs28\lang1033\langfe1033\kerning28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Plain Text;}{\s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 footnote text;}{\*\cs17 
\additive \super \sbasedon10 footnote reference;}}{\info{\title Tuning}{\author efahl}{\operator Eric}{\creatim\yr2002\mo4\dy3\hr9\min52}{\revtim\yr2005\mo11\dy9\hr20\min39}{\printim\yr2002\mo4\dy3\hr12\min29}{\version35}{\edmins132}{\nofpages2}
{\nofwords522}{\nofchars2981}{\*\company Mechanical Dynamics, Inc.}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern8247}}\margl1319\margr1319 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120
\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind4\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\nolnhtadjtbl \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2
\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\sb60\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f1\fs28\lang1033\langfe1033\kerning28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs17\super #{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs17\super #}{ IDH_TUNING}}}{Tuning
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f1 Tuning Point
\par }{\f1 The "tuning point" is the red cross on the graph on the right half of the screen.  The three coordinate values corresponding to the current tuning point position are displayed in the status window in the same color as the cursor.
\par 
\par }{\b\f1 Spot
\par }{\f1 The \'93spot\'94 is the green dot specifying current engine operating position in the graph.  The numeric values corresponding to the spot are displayed in green in the status window.
\par 
\par }{\b\f1 Keystrokes
\par Arrows}{\f1  move the tuning point to a different vertex on the graph.
\par }{\b\f1 Shift-Up}{\f1  = increase the value at the tuning point on the graph.
\par }{\b\f1 Shift-Down}{\f1  = decrease the value at the tuning point.
\par }{\b\f1 Ctrl-Shift-Up}{\f1  = increase the value by a \'93lot\'94 (5 internal units).
\par }{\b\f1 Ctrl-Shift-Down}{\f1  = reduce the value by a lot.
\par }{\b\f1 F}{\f1  = find and place the tuning point on the graph vertex nearest the spot.
\par }{\b\f1 G}{\f1  = Goto spot; behaves as a continuous \'93F\'94 mode.
\par }{\b\f1 Z}{\f1  = zoom between a 2D and 3D display of the VE graph.  2D mode makes it much easier to see where the spot is with respect to the tuning point, but 3D mode allows you to easily see wh
en you have vertices that are out of agreement with the rest of the table.
\par }{\b\f1 M}{\f1  and }{\b\f1 N}{\f1  = rotate the 3D view, display new \'93gridOrient\'94 so you can past the values into your custom.ini file.
\par }{\b\f1 S}{\f1  = save current state (i.e., burn flash on the MS).
\par }{\b\f1 X}{\f1  = eXit from the tuning dialog.
\par 
\par To navigate the graph on the right of the Tuning screen, use the arrow keys to move the tuning point, up moves up on the Y axis of the grid and down moves to a lower Y bin.  If you
 know VI, then you can alternatively use the standard motion keys from that editor; use "k" to go up, "j" to go down, "h" to go left and "l" to go right.  Left and right arrow keys move to the higher and lower X-axis bins, respectively.
\par 
\par For example, when 
the tuning dialog is being used to edit a VE table, the shifted up and down arrow keys enrich or lean the VE table value at the tuning point.  Alternatively, the "q" key richens the currently selected bin and "w" leans it.  Whenever you change a value in 
MegaTune, it is immediately changed in the MegaSquirt controller's RAM.  These changes will go away when you turn off the engine if you do not save them into flash memory by typing "b" for \'93burn to flash.\'94
\par 
\par }{\b\f1 Gauges
\par }{\f1 If the Engine MAP gauge appears to be readi
ng at about half of what you expect and you are running an MPX4250 sensor, then MS is using the wrong transfer function table for your sensor.  This could be because you either told MS you have the other sensor, or because MegaTune read the wrong kpafacto
r.inc file.  Run the MegaTune Configurator and see what configuration is selected.
\par 
\par The operation of the gauges should be self evident, with the exception of the }{\f1\uldb VE gauge}{\v\f1 IDH_VEGAUGE}{\f1 .
\par 
\par }{\cs17\b\f1\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs17\super #}{ IDH_VEGAUGE}}}{\b\f1 VE Gauge
\par }{\f1 The VE gauge on the tuning screen represents the VE table value corresponding to the cursor placement on the right-hand side, }{\i\f1 not}{\f1 
 the runtime VE value.  The tuning screen allows one to access a particular VE table entry easily, by moving the cursor to one 
of 64 positions (up/down by 8 and left/right by 8), and the VE gauge represents the VE table entry.  If you hit the richen VE key, the gauge will go up by 1% for each hit, down for 1% lower - this is also transmitted to the ECU and it responds immediately
.
\par 
\par So, lets say you want to set your VE value at idle.  Get the engine running, and bring the RPMs down to idle.  The "dot" on the screen follows the MAP and RPM, just like the ECU does internally to determine VE.  Move the cursor to a VE table point close 
to where the "dot" is, and then hit the richen (q) or lean (w) keys - the engine will react.  It takes only a few minutes to get used to the setup, and it takes a few seconds to dial in a VE table entry.
\par 
\par One thing to remember - if you like what you have a
djusted, then you must hit the save (s) key in order for the setting to be stored in flash, otherwise the values will be erased when you shut off the key.  This allows you to play around with VE table values any time you like, and if you like what you did
 with the VE values then you can save them, otherwise go back to the old settings the next time you start the car.
\par 
\par }{\b\f1 The 15 Minute Tune
\par }{\f1 Rough tuning your engine is pretty straight forward if you have a narrow-band oxygen sensor wired into your MegaSquirt.  If you plan on tuning on the road (as opposed to on a dyno), then you will need an assistant.
\par 
\par The first step is setting the ReqFuel constant to an appropriate value.  If you know your injector flow rate, then use the }{\uldb\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 calculator}{\v\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 
\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 IDH_REQFUEL}{\f1  on the constants screen.  If you don\rquote 
t know the flow rate, make a rough guess, then set all the values in the VE table around the expected idle MAP and RPM to 15-20%.  Start your engine and let it warm up, then tweak the ReqFuel value on the Tuning dialog while the engine 
idles.  Make the idle as smooth and strong as you can, it will probably be rich when idling, but this is ok.
\par 
\par Go to the Enrichments dialog and turn off acceleration enrichment by setting the TPSdot Threshold to some large value like 50 and turn off the EGO closed-loop mode by setting the EGO Step value to 0.
\par 
\par Now you are ready to rough tune the rest of the table.  While one of your team drives the vehicle, the other member will tune specific points in the table.  If you are the driver, you will need to hold
 a steady vacuum and RPM at each of the vertices on the tuning screen; the green dot will reside at the intersection of two lines.
\par 
\par If you are the tuner, you will be watching the Exhaust Gas Oxygen gauge and trying to get it to hover around its mid-point (0.5 volts).  Do this by moving the cursor to the vertex of interest (type\'94F\'94
) and then use shift-up and shift-down arrows to raise or lower the VE at that point (all of VE, fuel delivered and narrow band Exhaust Gas Oxygen move in the same direction, so if the EGO is below center, use shift-up to raise it).
\par 
\par Once you have the engine running reasonably well, start using datalogs and MSTweak3000 to do the rest of the table.
\par }}