{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f23\froman\fcharset128\fprq1{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}MS Mincho{\*\falt ?? ??};}{\f28\froman\fcharset128\fprq1{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}@MS Mincho;}
{\f35\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f36\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f38\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f39\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f40\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f41\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f42\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f43\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f44\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}
{\f46\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f47\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}{\f48\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial (Hebrew);}{\f49\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial (Arabic);}{\f50\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}
{\f51\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f52\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f54\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}{\f55\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f56\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}
{\f57\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f58\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\ql \li0\ri0\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\f1\fs28\lang1033\langfe1033\kerning28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Plain Text;}{\s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 footnote text;}{\*\cs17 
\additive \super \sbasedon10 footnote reference;}}{\info{\title VE Table}{\author Compaq}{\operator Compaq}{\creatim\yr2002\mo4\dy2\hr22\min7}{\revtim\yr2002\mo12\dy12\hr16\min24}{\version6}{\edmins9}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords856}{\nofchars4881}
{\*\company Compaq}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern8247}}\margl1319\margr1319 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3
\jcompress\viewkind4\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\nolnhtadjtbl \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s1\ql \li0\ri0\sb60\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f1\fs28\lang1033\langfe1033\kerning28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs17\super\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 #{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs17\super #}{ IDH_VETABLE}}}{\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 VE Table
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
All interpolation in MS uses table end points (NOT extrapolation) when the indexing value exceeds the limits of the table, but that fact is especially important when co\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
nsidering the computations of volumetric efficiency from the VE table.  This means that if your biggest MAP bin contains 100%, then any MAP value over this will produce 100% (for a given RPM).
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 This does NOT mean that the pulse width will be the same for M\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
AP readings of 100 kPa and 200 kPa, the MAP value is used to scale the pulse width accordingly, so for this example you will get twice as much fuel.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 To clarify how all these factors are used, I'll give you an ideal form of the pulse width calculation (con\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 taining no enrichments or any other fluff).
\par 
\par }{\fs16\dbch\af23 \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2    PW = nominalPW * airDensity * VE
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 In MegaTune, the nominal pulse width is called Required Fuel.  This number gives a value (in milliseconds) that provides exactly the correct amount of fuel for stoichiometric\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
 combustion when the temperature is 70 F, the atmospheric pressure is 100 kPa and the engine is operating at 100% volumetric efficiency.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Air density is calculated from MAP and air temperature.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Volumetric efficiency is a function of many factors (intake a\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
nd exhaust tract design, camshaft lobe shape, and so on) but can be characterized very well for a given engine by MAP and RPM.  I could go on about resonance and laminar flow, but it is sufficient to say that at low MAP (30 kPa), the VE is typically very 
\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 p\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
oor due to turbulence effects, so VE is low (maybe 10-30%).  At the MAP values 100 kPa and higher, the torque curve is a close reflection of the VE curve, so expect the VE values to peak at about the same point.
\par 
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Very Important Note
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 The VE values in MS do \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
not reflect the true VE in your engine, since you usually do not want to run stoichiometric combustion in all operating regimes!  They are a combined value giving the VE \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 multiplied by\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
 any enrichments or enleanments that you desire.  When your turbo motor is runnin\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 g at 250 kPa and has a true VE of 100% at 14.7:1 AFR, you \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 w\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
ould enter 111% to get 13.2:1 AFR.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 ?????????????????
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Table Entries
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 Remember that Required Fuel value that you entered (or computed) on the first field of the Constants page?  That value determine\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
s the ideal pulse width at 100% VE.  The entries in this table scale that value to determine the actual pulse width (neglecting all correction factors and enrichments).  As such, both the required fuel and the VE table entries are more or less arbitrary, 
\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 b\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 ut it is useful to make them as close to correct as possible.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 In other words, if your required fuel value is 15.0 ms and the VE table entry being used is 100%, you could achieve the same pulse width with 10.0 ms and 150%, respectively.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 It is also importa\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
nt to understand that these VE values do not indicate the amount of fuel delivered over time.  For example, if you have a row in the table that is 100% across the board, then fuel delivered is proportional to RPM.  Say that the engine is running at 2500 R
\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 P\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
M and the pulse width is 12.0 ms.  If you speed the engine up to 5000 RPM the pulse width will remain at 12.0 ms, but this delivers twice as much fuel because there will be twice as many injection events\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
 in a given time interval\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 .
\par 
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 MAP Bins
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
The MAP bins define the range over which you can vary the VE values used for pulse width calculations.  These values are in kPa (absolute) and can vary from 0 to 255 kPa; usually 0 to 100 for a NA motor and 0 to max boost on a turbo- or supercharged one.

\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 The biggest value \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 might\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1  be 100%, even for a turbo motor, IF you want the fuel at boost to be linearly proportional to MAP.\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
  Typically, though, you want some values above \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 the\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1  \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 100 kPa value to add fuel as coolant when boosting.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 This might result in a table that looks like this:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 MAP\tab VE (%)
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 ...
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 100\tab 80
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 150\tab 100
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 200\tab 100
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 250\tab 120
\par }\pard \s15\ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 4000 RPM
\par }\pard \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 to ensure that extra fuel is delivered when boost is applied.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 I've got no good way to determine spacing of the bin values, as I \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 do for RPM bins, but read below and you can probably rationalize something.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 The MAP bins must be ordered from top to bottom in strictly ascending order (i.e., small ones on top, big ones on the bottom).  The low value should be around 20 kPa and the top v\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
alue should be around the maximum pressure that you expect your engine to see (100 kPa for NA motors, somewhat over max boost on a turbo- or supercharged motor to give yourself some headroom).
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 The MAP bin values are stored in MS as "KPARANGEVE."
\par 
\par }{\b\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 RPM Bins
\par }{\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af23 \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 The RPM bins define the range over which you can adjust VE based on engine speed.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 If you have a representative torque curve for a motor like yours (ideally from a dyno run, but probably nearly as good fro\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
m one of the many engine simulation packages available), you can set the spacing of these values from that.  Find the places on the graph where the curve is "bending" the fastest (i.e., has big second derivatives; usually from idle to up near the torque p
\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 e\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 ak) and use smaller RPM intervals over these.  For long stretches where the curve is straight, but not necessarily horizontal, you can use bigger gaps in the bins.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 ??? need a picture here.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 The reason for this is that the algorithm is going to do linear i\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
nterpolation between these points (that is, it is going to play connect-the-dots), so you will have smaller error between bin points if you choose them well.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 It is usual to have the low end of the torque curve well represented, down to idle, and the top e\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 
nd should be somewhere near your redline value.  For a street engine, the torque curve is usually dropping rapidly at redline, dictating that you have that top value up near redline.  On a race motor, you are much nearer the torque peak, so will probably 
\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 g\hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 roup the RPM bin values more tightly up there for finer control over the range of interest.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af23\loch\f1 The RPM bin values are stored in MS as "RPMRANGEVE."
\par 
\par }}
